- [Instructor] One of the most interesting changes
to the Spring framework, was the Spring Boot project.
I would even go so far to argue
that no other aspect of Spring,
other than the framework itself
has contributed to its popularity more than Spring Boot.
Now, this is a pretty bold statement for me to make,
but I truly believe it.
Mainly because of what Spring Boot provides.
Spring Boot at its core,
is all about rapid application development.
But it starts at the initial setup phase of the application
as well as common configuration.
Enhancing existing applications
also see speed increases with Spring Boot.
Now because of how it is structured,
Spring Boot removes much of the boilerplate actions
that are associated with just the application creation
and initial setup.
Spring Boot also has many uses.
While we will focus on web application
and web service development in this course,
it can be used for many types of applications using Spring,
including things like Cron jobs, ETL type applications,
and maintenance processes that run in your system.
Again, the use cases are unlimited,
if it needs to be run on the JVM,
Spring Boot most likely will save you time.
Spring Boot was designed with a cloud native world in mind,
and many of the constructs
are for cloud native applications,
but there is no reason traditional enterprise applications,
even monolithic ones cannot leverage effectively Spring Boot
and yield many of its benefits.
The list of features of Spring Boot
that makes it so attractive in the Spring world is long,
but, there are some key components
that drive our use of it for this course.
First on the list for most developers,
is the embedded application server support.
Spring Boot with the web packages brings in a pre-configured
Tomcat instance to the application.
You can change the application server,
but this is very different
in traditional JVM based applications,
where you would build a WAR file
and drop it into the application server.
With Spring Boot, the application server exists
within the Spring Boot JAR file.
Now Josh long, the developer advocate for Spring
often will be seen using the phrase, make jar not war.
Auto-configuration is at the heart of Spring Boot.
In traditional Spring development, much of your time
was spent configuring the application context
often through copy and paste operations.
With Spring Boot, much of the configuration is done for you
in many cases with a logical set of defaults
and with the ability to add properties,
to modify those defaults, as you need to.
Another real powerful construct
is the automatic servlet mappings.
Now this goes hand in hand with embedded application
servers, as well as the way that the application context
is auto configured.
You get a default and effective servlet mapping
without having to write any XML or any Java configuration
to the core servlet container of your application.
Another very powerful aspect of Spring Boot
is raw database support and configuration for both embedded
and remote databases with hibernate mappings,
as the default implementation of JPA.
With Spring Boot, a few key properties
allow you to connect to remote databases
or leverage embedded files with default schema
and default data provided by CQL files
that are embedded in your application.
The embedded case is fantastic for POC type solutions
or demos, not as much in the real world,
but I use them a lot when I do POCs
that I can hand to a developer to modify,
to connect to a remote database.
Now you also get automatic controller mappings
for MVC based applications.
With the Raul Spring framework,
we used to have to configure these mappings
earlier in the frameworks life cycle
and it was rather tedious.
New Spring developers don't have to deal with any of that.
A few simple annotations handle everything
for wiring web requests to appropriate classes
and methods via the servlet context.
Now I've spoken a bit about auto configuration
of the application context a few times now.
So I'd like to spell it out just a little bit more.
Auto configuration refers to the application context
or more specifically the inversion of control container,
which is the BeanFactory.
We will spend some time in a couple of more videos,
really explaining IOC, but for now,
just understand that Spring Boot provides a default
and opinionated configuration of common constructs.
The opinionated defaults are very common
and oftentimes you don't need to change them,
but they are very easy to override,
usually through very simple properties for the environment.
Now, one of the key aspects of auto configuration
is the ability to configure when a class,
property or component is present
and to bypass that configuration when it isn't.
This configuration allows a simple set of defaults
that only get added to the application context
when the associated projects or JAR files are included.